src/studio/src/designer/frontend/README.md, before:

## Getting Started

### On migrating to Yarn

We have recently changed from `npm` to `yarn`. Because of that change, there is some cleanup needed to be done. These steps can be skipped if you have cloned a fresh copy, or if you are sure you are already using `yarn` in this repository. If you are unsure, you can follow the steps anyway.

1. Execute `yarn --immutable`. This step is only nescessary if you have not already done it, or if you change branches.
2. This step needs to be executed in an environment that has access to the `rm` command. On Windows, that is typically in `git bash`. Execute `yarn run rm-node-modules`

This will remove any `node_modules` under each workspace (dashboard, app-development, shared, ux-editor, packages/schema-editor). The `node_modules` in this project root (`frontend`) will not be removed. If you get a message like

```
rm: cannot remove './node_modules/': No such file or directory
```

that is fine - it just means that the folder that needed to be deleted didnt exist in the first place.

For other commands executed with `npm` (f.ex `npm run test`), you should now use `yarn` instead (f.ex `yarn run test`).

## Running the tests

### Lint checks

1. Execute `yarn --immutable`. This step is only nescessary if you have not already done it, or if you change branches.
2. Execute `yarn run lint`.

### Unit tests

1. Execute `yarn --immutable`. This step is only nescessary if you have not already done it, or if you change branches.
2. Execute `yarn run test`.

Commit message:

chore: remove rm-node-modules command, and instead add command to execute in the readme. Also updated the instructions to be clearer

src/studio/src/designer/frontend/README.md, after:

## Getting Started

### On migrating to Yarn

We have recently changed from `npm` to `yarn`. Because of that change, there is some cleanup needed to be done. These steps can be skipped if you have cloned a fresh copy, or if you are sure you are already using `yarn` in this repository. If you are unsure, you can follow the steps anyway.

1. From this folder (`src/designer/frontend`) Execute `npx rimraf **/node_modules/**`. This will remove any `node_modules` under each workspace (dashboard, app-development, shared, ux-editor, packages/schema-editor), and the `node_modules` in this project root (`frontend`) folder.
2. Execute `yarn --immutable` from this project root.

For other commands executed with `npm` (f.ex `npm run test`), you should now use `yarn` instead (f.ex `yarn run test`).

## Running the tests

### Lint checks

1. Execute `yarn --immutable`. This step is only nescessary if you have not already done it, or if you change branches.
2. Execute `yarn run lint`.

### Unit tests

1. Execute `yarn --immutable`. This step is only nescessary if you have not already done it, or if you change branches.
2. Execute `yarn run test`.
